please welcome to the stage Philipe
butteri partner at assel and Victor
Ripper belly co-founder and CEO at
Synthesia hi everyone uh it's my
pleasure to be here with you today with
uh with Victor I think we've been
properly introduced so I'm curious like
how would you rate the quality of the
Avatar like if the Avatar didn't say it
was an avatar how many of you would have
thought that it was an actor
speaking real human versus an
avatar all right one person well that's
not well it says a lot about uh the
progress that AI still has um still has
to do uh all right that's a good start
so I'm U Philip ber I'm a partner with
AEL so we're a global Venture fund and
uh we do a lot in U software B2B and Ai
and we can do anything from a million
dollar C to 100 million go stage um
investment and I have the pleasure to be
here today with Victor who the founder
of CEO of cesia so you kind of got a
preview of what um cesia dies um but to
get started I'd love to start with your
entrepreneurship journey and kind of how
you went from skateboarding and pump
music in Copenhagen to start you know
one of the the great generi company out
of
London yeah sure and and great to be
here um so I think my my journey towards
founding
started in my my childhood years always
loved computers loved sci-fi um and kind
of in my my late teens I guess figured
out that I could turn into a career
um on a personal level I've always been
more interested in like Fringe ideas and
uh I think the internet is a great place
to find a lot of Fringe ideas
interesting perspectives that wasn't
around me physically in Copenhagen where
I grew up um so I think that's just
always been like a a kind of a personal
interest in mine and maybe in my earlier
years that was around like skateboards
and punk music and weird music in
general which is still a hobby of mine
today um but then in my kind of late
teens After figuring out that um that my
interest in computers could become a
career I started building websites for
local businesses small things like that
I graduated into working in the Danish
startup ecosystem which I did for four
years or so mostly in like product and
growth roles I'm I'm kind of like
technical but I'm a terrible developer
so I always find this we SP for me was
thinking about the product but also kind
of like how that connects with the
customers and the business side and the
the kind of Technology side in those
four years I I I I definitely learned
that I wanted to build my own company I
loved building products but I also
learned that I I just wasn't super
passionate about building accounting
tools or business process uh software um
I wanted to kind of combine it with my
interest in in SciFi and kind of like
the fringes of technology so to make a
very long story short move to London um
to kind of pursue do that because
Copenhagen didn't feel like the right
place to build Frontier technology spent
a year on just kind of finding my feet
meeting lots of interesting people did a
lot of VR and AR and eventually met my
co-founder Professor Matias nner or one
of my co-founders professor Matias nner
who done a research paper called face
Toof face uh which was like I guess the
first research paper showing a NE
Network generating highly realistic um
video and when I kind of saw that I I
felt like I I saw magic for the first
time and I had sort of two thoughts in
my head the first order effect of this
is going to be that producing video
content is going to be possible to do
from behind your desk No cameras actors
Studios microphones and all that stuff
just like you can make music from behind
your desk you can write and publish a
book from behind your desk right like
most other types of media you can
already do entirely in a digital
workflow and then the second order
effect which I think is what we're
slowly getting to now is that once
that's possible and video is generated
via code it's going to change video as a
format new technology always breeds new
type of media formats and for video what
that probably is going to mean is that
it's going to be less linear um it's
going to be personalized it's going to
be
interactive and uh intellectually I
think that's that's that's very exciting
and it's also a great business
opportunity so um that's the short
version of kind of how I I got to to
found some these year and how do you go
from well AI is a fantastic tool to
create video and we can get rid of all
the hardware all the
camera um to produce like great original
content to focus more on Avatar and
business productivity so I think we did
what what uh conventional wisdom will
tell you not to do which is we kind of
fell in love more with the technology
and a vision of where that what's going
to go in the future um so kind of once
we decided to to start a company the
question was okay great we think this is
going to be possible in 10 years time
how do we sequence a company along the
way right how do we build a product we
can sell to people so that we can raise
money and have customers and all that
stuff and the first thing we did was we
sat down and we thought okay what do we
think we can realistically build and
sell within 12 months because that's
kind of what the runway determined that
we had to and we ended up on doing this
AI doing idea which was pretty simple
you give me a a real video and we'll dob
it into a different language by changing
the lip synchron synchronization and of
course the voice
over that has had a huge Resurgence now
because the Technologies is matured but
back then it was two phds spending 10
days and making just like a 30 second
clip right so we went to video
production professionals agencies we
tried Hollywood with this technology and
it didn't fail completely like there's
there's a decent business taken into
consideration we were like eight or nine
people at the time but it was very
obvious to us that we were selling a
vitamin not a painkiller right if we
disappeared off the surface of the Earth
the day after people be like ah we'll
just put subtitles on right and we also
realized that because of that we're not
in control the go-to market at all right
like we we we did a famous campaign with
Beckham for example where we translated
him into nine different languages and
obviously the bulk of the work around
that is like convincing Beckham to do
this campaign with this company over
here and all the stuff in between is not
just the AI part of it um so after doing
that for a couple of years we sort of
sat down and said what have we learned
and do we think this the right path for
the business we didn't think it was the
right path for the business um because
the path here would be we become a
visual effect studio with a proprietary
technology that's not what we set out to
build and then what did we learned well
we'd actually learned that the people we
were trying to sell this to their house
wasn't on fire they're making lots of
awesome video content every single year
right they are working with Beckham and
liel Messi and Snoop Dog and they make
awesome videos but what we learned was
that there are actually Millions maybe
billions of people in the world who are
not making video today and they're
desperate to make video their house is
actually on fire and this ranged from
you know just any kind of random person
off the street who want to start a
YouTube Channel but didn't want to show
their face to the world's biggest
companies where someone really wanted to
make video content but just couldn't get
the budget because it wasn't prioritized
and so the thesis was if we focus on all
these people who are not making video
today we give them a much much faster
much much more affordable solution to
make video they'll probably be okay with
the quality of the videos being slightly
lower than what you get off a camera and
that let us down this path of developing
the Avatar technology which we're famous
for today and we released that kind of
three years into to the company and that
was the sort of inflection point where
we we clearly really hit on Earth
despite the product like almost barely
working being very low quality there was
just such a big pull for the market
people really wanted uh a better way of
making videos without having to use
cameras and we looked at all that
traffic we figured out who's doing this
because it's cool and fun and wow I want
to show my friend and who's doing this
because they actually have a real
business need for us and that sort of
took us down the path of building a B2B
SAS platform for video
creation um and today we're the biggest
one in the world doing this we help our
customers both create the content using
our AI models and our video editor
collaborate on it and share it with um
with the end user and what we learned
was that the business opportunity here
which I think is is very common uh for
startups right was more sort of a Market
expansion it was like enabling all these
people to make videos so if you're a big
fast food company and you need to train
a lot of people to work in your
restaurants instead of doing a bit a 40
page PDF handbook you can do the videos
which is much more effective if you have
2,000 salespeople and you assume all
around the world and you want to make
sure they understand what's going on in
the competitive landscape that they're
in with pricing changes or whatever then
instead of sending them long emails that
no one reads you can make these
bite-size videos which has much higher
information retention engagement and so
that was kind of the unlock right it was
enabling people who used to create
slides and text enable them to make
video um and that was the big unlock and
I think what we did well in that Journey
was being very realistic and very
intentional
about what are the technology in its
current stage actually good enough for
and not trying to get ahead of ourselves
and I think that's a lot of AI companies
I think that's the struggle people have
today with you know where can it go in
the future and where what can it do
today but did you have a sense when you
started the company in 2017 of how fast
the technology would progress in the
coming year like did you did you already
had the vision saying well yes the
avatar from 2018 2019 the first version
it's very gimmicky it doesn't look like
a human but soon we're going to get
there or you say well there is a journey
but there is already a market for
something that's not perfect think was a
combination I think I mean so we said
back in 17 I think in the first investor
pitch uh investor deck we had right we
said that in 10 years it's going to be
possible to create a Hollywood film from
your laptop not needing anything else
that's 2017 and at current rate of
progress that wouldn't really surprise
me so I think we got the timeline sort
of like ballpark right but of course in
between what's going to happen the next
six months and next year is harder to
predict um so I think there's more case
of the latter in terms of like running
the business of of being like yes these
avatars made to the average person on
the street not look great
but what is it we're trying to replace
here right what are we trying to better
and the realization we had especially in
the early years was that actually the
market for some D videos is like the
world's 90% worst videos right which are
not even videos it's like a PowerPoint
being screen recorded or something and I
think that that's the kind of thing
which was not obvious from the
outside so to get the company started
you obiously had to raise fund so I
don't want to spend too much time on the
fundraising but there's one anecdote
which I found very interesting so can
you tell us how you got Mark Kubin to
invest as an angel in the company yeah
so in in 17 when we tried to race the
first round we went
through you know we kind of when we got
the idea and we made the first uh pitch
deck we were like this is amazing it's
going to be so easy to raise money right
we clearly have an insanely cool idea we
have a great team people will will love
this and of course no one loved it
people thought we were bad crazy I
think um so we got turned down by like a
100 investors something like that there
was not a hot space the technology was
very very early I'm not technical myself
I think back then I think when when when
VCS look for Founders a lot of VCS look
for like the researcher to be the CEO
because it feels like they will built
the tech and I think that can be
valuable but I think back then they
looked at me they're like this business
guy is trying to create like a deep
research lab to make AI video doesn't
really not really going to
fly um so we almost classic story like
we almost gave up my my co-founder
Stefan um we had this list of of
interesting like business angels and
Mark cuin sat well in the the kind of
vent diagram of like media and
technology and Stephan sent him a cold
email he responded back within five
minutes and then we had this like 14
hour exchange with mobile email he
doesn't do calls um and 14 hours after
after maybe 30 emails going back and
forth he agreed to invest a million
dollars at like 400 a.m. in the morning
UK time which was very very surreal but
that's kind of what kicks out of the
company yeah it show so cold email can
lead to a million dollar financing I I
think that sh such an amazing Story show
kind of the the gr that you need to have
as an entrepreneur and think that
nothing is impossible and also I I
actually think what my biggest takea
away from that is especially if you're
doing something which is not in the sort
of
current overturn window of what people
like to fund you really need to find
someone who already shares your thesis
like it's very difficult to convince
someone cold about your thesis Mark cuan
had actually implemented this paper
himself at home he already believed that
the same things that we believed he was
more looking for a team to fund it right
and I think that's what made the process
a lot easier whereas a lot of the other
conversations we had we almost starting
at like what's Ai and what's a video and
you know and then it's very very
difficult nice
so shifting gear a bit let's talk about
why an AI software company is different
from a traditional SAS company so in a
in a software company I would say there
are two things that matters you need to
build a product and sell the product in
an AI company it's it's different
because you need to build a product but
before doing building the product you
actually need to do the research so it's
not only an engineering team but it's a
research team that you need to have
which is a different budget different
type of people to manage so I'm just
curious like how did you apprehend the
the setup of the company at the
beginning uh to make sure that you could
address this shift uh the best way
possible so so back when we started we
were very heavily focused on like purely
the AI and the reason we're purely
focused on the AI was because if we
couldn't make that work we probably
couldn't really make make anything else
work that was like that was very much
the core of the company so in the
beginning it was basically me and step
on the kind of business and product side
and the rest of the team which was I
think eight other people were all uh
researchers once we kind of built the
first product we hit the infection Point
actually only then we we we hired like a
a team to build like the whole SAS
platform and what traditionally would
kind of start off with I'm not sure I
would do that again if I if we had
raised more money back then I probably
would have started the product
engineering side earlier but what is
very unique to to to building an AI
business and I think you have to be very
intentional about do you actually want
to do the science especially in the
market where now these Technologies are
much more mature and much more
accessible do you actually want to do
the science if you want to do science
you should do so because it unlocks a
fundamental New Market um would be my
take the the issue with research is that
there's so much uncertainty right it's
so difficult to put timelines on you
kind of PR definition trying to do
something um which is really hard and
may not succeed so so you have this
division in your company where the DNA
of a researcher is so different from the
DNA of like your traditional SAS hacker
early stage engineer who just like wants
to get stuff done researchers are
scientist right and they have to be
scientists because otherwise they can't
solve they can't solve the
problems um but it can be quite
frustrating I think a lot of AI
companies are still trying to figure out
what's the right interface between those
two teams how do you run the research
team and I think what we have found to
work well and what other Founders um
that have built Big AI companies um from
my experience have found works well is
that you almost need to take a VC style
approach to your
research there is some problem you're
trying to solve and there is many
different ways people trying to solve
that problem right that could be like
different architectures could be
different data sets could be a whole
bunch of different things and because
it's research you don't know which one's
going to work right there's a lot of
people who who try to do things similar
to llms that just didn't work but llms
actually did work and so the way we've
approached it is almost like a spread
betting portfolio where you have a few
teams working to solve the same problem
but they approach it from different
angles um and that works well because
you get the kind of wide coverage you
kind of hch against you not picking the
right direction which is a very big
chance of you not doing but you have to
be very good at then killing Your
Darlings right so when you see One
Direction take off shut down the other
projects pull them into that project and
that's that's just very different than
how you would do like a traditional SAS
app right like you wouldn't have three
different teams trying to build a
building system and then the best team
that's to keep the Billing System um
because you're dealing with with with
much more uncertainty in these kind of
teams and and what what does this mean
in terms of culture and performance for
a research team like what what what are
I mean you you said something which is
very interesting which is you know
people are searching you don't know if
they're going to find right so it's very
hard to say well you need this
discovered you know in six months and
they're like oh you haven't found so
mean you're good you're bad like so how
do you uh how do you evaluate uh the
team that is really hard it's really
hard um I think you you I you can still
look at things like velocity for example
right you can look at are they smart
about how they do things um and that can
be on an IC level but I think also very
much on a manager level you need to make
sure that like a lot of researchers will
naturally be um drawn to the hardest
problem and the hardest problem is not
always the things that's the most
valuable for your business right let's
say with tesia we're building avatars
and the research team has built
something that kind of works but they
figured out that for people with a big
red beard sunglasses on and a pirate hat
the technology doesn't work a lot of
researchers will be that's very
interesting why does it not work with a
pirate hat when it works with a normal
hat right
and they might get drawn into that and
be like oh let's try and solve this
problem and how do we do this but
obviously for your business it doesn't
matter because you can just tell people
look you can't make an avatar with a big
red beard and a pirate hat and sunglass
on the technology doesn't work right
that's such a an edge case so I think
measuring like how well are they at
thinking about the product in the in the
choices they make in their research is
is one vector and the other one is I
would say is is velocity right even
though you're doing um science how many
experiments are you running per week or
per month right how good are you at
evaluating those experiments um because
otherwise you run the risk of running
like a high school science lab with no
oversight but but it is it is very
difficult I don't think anyone has like
the perfect answer to this
yet and how do you think about
strategically about uh where to focus
the research I mean there are a lot of
things that are being developed in AI
there are a lot of things that could be
of the shell that you can use and there
are things that where you really want to
push the boundaries of the the science
so and that's obvious costly so how do
you think about this um this balance and
I think what advice would you give to
the entrepreneur in the room who are
kind of dealing with the same uh
question so for many years for us there
was no choice but to build it ourselves
right there simply just wasn't anything
else on the market and the open source
Community was was was working like very
different things than what we
needed I think today you want to be very
intentional
about what narrow slice of AI you can be
uniquely the best in the world at and
that's a pretty high bar given how much
investment and how many great companies
are already trying to do things right
you're probably not going to be the best
in the world at building a fully
generalizable llm model today unless
you're like anthropic open AI or Google
or whatever for us we think well we're
not not going to be the best in the
world at General AI video like Sora
style from open AI but we think we can
be the best in the world at are people
presenting to the camera and that is a
huge category and so if we focus all of
our efforts on just being the best in
the world at creating videos of humans
talking to the camera I think we can win
that and the rest we can partner with if
our customers want to create a video of
a dog running on the beach with a plane
flying in the background let's integrate
that from someone else so for us that
means we build device technology we
build the video technology build what we
call our director module and all these
different components of the system are
tuned for that specific use case and I
think if you have three different
systems that are all tuned towards
specific use case that does a lot more
competitive differentiation um but I
think in in the world we in right now
right you want to be very careful about
making that that slice as thin as
possible and how do you think this is
where do you think this is going over
time like do you think that over time
all the open Ai and the hyperscalers and
entr Tropic Etc will develop enough
technology so that you don't really need
research anymore and you're just going
to use things of the shelf or do you
think that there's always going to be
some some area where you can continue to
do something specific that's better and
giving you a Competitive Edge on the
market I I I believe the latter more I
think that
for the world is is messy and complex
and when you build systems that work in
production right there's there's a
million different things that that they
need to be able to do so I do think that
there is going to be value in research
for for a long time um I think I think
you want to be also intentional about do
you want to be an infrastructure layer
where you truly have to be the best best
in the world at something or do you want
are do you see yourself more to
operating in the applied layer right and
I think if you operate in the applied
layer there's sort of one extreme
version of the world where you say all
the research we're
doing we're doing because it's a go-to
market Advantage because we can take our
products to the world
first but maybe over time it matters
less if you can replace it with an API
call from open AI or something like that
right but you had the ADV anage of
taking that product to Market 6 9 12
months before your competitors and that
in itself is hugely valuable and it's
probably worth spending millions of
dollars in research on right but you're
building your product in a way where the
sole value of what you're building is
not just the AI model and to give an
explanation for this like if you take uh
a chat gbt right there like chat GPT is
like an interface to a model and
obviously open AI needs to be the best
in the world at that specific thing but
if you're building a customer support
chatbot that that needs to be able to
respond to customers inquiries that
piece of technology is very important
but you probably still have some kind of
an agent flow you have a knowledge base
you have some tech that helps uh
customer support team make sure that
model doesn't there's so much
scaffolding that sits around that and
that is actually more your product than
the AI model themselves right and I
think if that situation you're in I
think it's actually pretty good right
maybe someone comes out with a better
llm in three years and you can just
replace it but for your customers
they're not just buying into face with
Air Mod right they're buying to full
solution the full platform that sits
around it and I think that's when you
look at a lot of the AI companies people
have been buildt last 12 to 18 months I
that's where you really run the risk of
being steamrolled by an upgrade to GPT
technology right because you build like
some little thin layer on top of GPT for
and it's very cool at the time but it
eventually gets eaten up right so I
think the traditional rules of building
a business doesn't really change like
you want to build uh you want to build a
platform that solves a problem for your
customer doesn't just give them pie of
Technology unless you're an
infrastructure company in which case you
are selling just the technology right
yeah no that that that makes sense so to
develop AI you need research team you
need algorithm and then you need
data um to what extent do you think that
data can be a competitive mode in
today's world and what did you do to go
after sources of data that you know are
more unique or
proprietary so data is definitely going
to going to be very very important and
it's probably going to be more important
than the model layer in my opinion over
time we definitely seen this play out
right now where people train these like
massive models they're very powerful
they're very capable and now people are
trying to figure out how to make them
really good to specific tasks and most
of that work that's going into that is
saying okay you need to curate the data
that you train maybe even the base model
on and you probably want to find tune it
on data that's very specific to whatever
task that you're trying to accomplish
and
it is just so that like the world's
publicly available data and information
which these models are trained on
there's a lot of stuff that's not in
there right like there's probably not
like a million MRI scans there's not
like a bunch of confidential uh spreadsh
sheets from like a really big business
so that that's all the data that people
are now figuring out okay these this
data is very valuable it's not available
on the public internet and obviously if
the model hasn't seen the data it's not
going to be able to to learn whatever it
needs to learn from that data so I think
that's going to be very very very
important um moving uh moving forward
and that's I think there's two parts of
this there is like existing data that
you can take and prepare for training
and then there is like acquiring new
data which is also something that's
growing so for us we're quite focused on
acquiring new data we have a big Studio
here in London we captured thousands of
people um following specific set of
instructions which is serves as the kind
of the base for some of the foundation
models that we're training right now so
I I think I think that is going to be
very important of course it matters if
you're like a medicine like a
pharmaceutical company where probably
there's a lot of private data You could
argue in the customer support uh kind of
world maybe it's less important because
everyone's knowledge base already public
so that's easily like scrapable you can
put into the model but um but it
definitely seems like curated data is is
how we're going to see the most progress
in in in all modalities for the next 12
months yeah so that's um so that that's
what he takes to build you of your core
AI engine and then you need to sell it
you know so it's been very interesting
to see that Synthesia managed to develop
a large fo footprint with the fortune
2000 so to some extent it was one of the
early AI products that started to get
broad uh adoption so how do you make
that happen so obviously distribution is
as important if almost not more
important than actually building the
product um and I think it it feels like
I've been in in in Tech now for more
than 10 years right and there's always
like one sort of Channel that's like
significantly better than all the others
and that changes all the time that's
kind of a window that moves right so
when I started out in Tech SEO for
example was huge and there was many many
billion dollar companies that was built
with SEO as like just the primary way of
driving traffic SE is still great but
it's very competitive people search less
and so on in AI it's very clear that
that channel is word of Word of Mouth a
has this sort of magical element to it
right it's it has a huge wow factor
people feel a bit threatened by it so
they want to try it and understand how
to use it they want to look cool on
LinkedIn by posting the latest and
greatest AI technology and so this is
one of the things we've seen the last 12
to 18 months right and so when you see
something like that I think it's about
okay how do you utilize that for your
business and I think I think we've been
pretty good at that you want to make
your product super accessible you want
to make it fun you want to make it
sharable and if you're good at those
things you can actually build this sort
of crazy Word of Mouth uh ground swell
and I think most of the AI companies
that are very successful today have used
an element of this in U because that
that distribution channel has been
incredibly strong the last 12 to 18
months how do you how do you make the
two work because usually when you you
have this bottom up engine it's mostly
suited for kind of prosumer small
businesses but like how do you get from
that kind of individual individually
driven traffic to get to a fortune 2000
account right yeah so obviously every
company is different I think for us what
what we realized early on was that all
these people who work in the Enterprise
and who have the problem of wanting to
make videos which is rarely the CEO
right that's often someone in the
organization who has a job to do and
they wish they could make more video all
these people are also on Tik Tok and
Instagram and whatever social channels
that we're on so actually if we focused
on those and drove just a very very kind
a big top of the
funnel and then there would be a lot of
people in that top funnel who will not
be relevant to us because we're looking
for that like one person in a fortune
2000 company but that person would also
be in there and then it's our job to get
them into the funnel get them to the
website help them make a video we of
course identify this is someone who's
like interesting and then basically
building more kind of a filtering
machine of take this top funnel figure
out which ones are the most interesting
people who came to us and made a video
as opposed to the other way around right
of like uh like cold outbound would
probably be the opposite of this where
you kind of filter at the top right you
only talk to the people that are super
directly relevant to your business and
you do everything you can to find those
so we kind of flipped that model around
let's just get it to into as many
people's hands as possible and then from
that we'll kind of sift out which ones
are the interesting ones so that that
worked very well at the beginning I mean
this bottom of motion I think is what
kind of made the company very well known
because I think one of the benefit of
all the consumer behavior that you get
to be on social media and that kind of
drive also awareness which in kind of
feeds the the Enterprise um the
Enterprise business but then at some
point you need to also do the outbound
right so can you walk us through this
journey from inbound to outbound and how
it has worked so far so for us we went
through like sort of different phase
right we hit this kind of first moment
where they just took off it just this
force of nature people just coming to us
using the product they wanted to pay for
it it was very very exciting for us of
course and but we're also very aware
that in that batch of people right
there's a lot of what we call AI
tourists which are people who you know
are very willing which I think is very
unique to AI is that people are actually
very willing to pay to try something out
both in Enterprise and personally much
more so than the kind of previous
generations of SAS and that's great
that's Revenue it's dollars in your bank
account um but it doesn't necessarily
mean that these people have a a
long-term use case right they might just
be trying out so like first thing for us
was like okay let's filter into who
actually have a use case for
this then we started on the product side
let's build for them let's make sure
that when people come to the platform
this is what we're tell them they should
do these things we do the right
templates for them we talk to them we
kind of build a business around that I
think that was sort of the the second
phase right we got all this viral moment
figured out who's actually the
interesting people in all this sort of
viral stuff and then the more we learned
about who are these people that are
really using the product and love the
products the more it also madees sense
for us to say okay let's begin to go a
bit more outbound let's do some paid
campaigns where we try and Target our
specific ICP right and then you can kind
of go deeper and deeper down up until
today where we're doing like actual cold
outbound because we know who the right
user for the product is we know what
value they got out of it it means that
we actually can do this right but that
would also have been more or less
impossible to do in the beginning
because we had to learn what they were
doing with the product right and what
was valuable and I think that's that's
the sort of interesting thing with these
products where they very open-ended for
us like I mean you can use video for a
million different things right you can
use it in sales or marketing or training
or send a birthday message to your
friend like a very general technology
it's a bit the same with llms right like
they can do a million different things
they can teach you about history they
can help you write an email and so I
think and I think that is a bit unique
to AI right in that these things are so
open-ended that you need to sort of
curve that before you can build that
that outbound engine so as you moved
from you know one motion to the next I
mean what was there a particular aha
moment that you had uh that kind of
drove kind of the next wave of of growth
I would say the two bigger har moments
was the first one was like people are
not replacing video production that're
replacing text was very fundamental to
our understanding of like why this
product is
valuable um and the second aha moment
was the this when people if everyone in
this room kind of close your eyes and
think of video probably the videos you
think of is like the Netflix show you
watched yesterday a really well produced
YouTube video or like all the great
content that floats to the top of
YouTube or Tik Tok or wherever we we
consume content right um and so if
that's what's in your mind and you look
at a CIA video you might say well that's
not a great video right um and we had to
overcome that bias by saying that's true
but that's not the videos we're
targeting there's most like 99.9% of
videos in the world are not beautifully
made YouTube videos they're like some
really crappy learning video in a big
American Bank that everybody hates
watching right and that's our
opportunity it's making that video
slightly less worse even if the final
result is not like wow this video is
amazing and that took a of kind of like
uh adjustment on the team to figure out
like people not replacing video they're
replacing kind of text and when we then
go into the
Enterprise the sort of videos that
people are trying to create with us
other tools are already crappy and it's
our opportunity to just make them better
which has real impact for them but that
was so nonobvious from the outside I
think for many years it was kind of our
little secret that this was actually
such a good business because a lot of
people would look at it and be like oh
it's kind of a fun cool idea but it's a
toy like no one is actually using this
for anything yeah
that that that makes sense um so we talk
about inbound outbound outbound bottom
up motion what about channels like what
what do you think are the right channel
for ni business and your business and
Synthesia in particular and when do you
think is the right time in the company
journey to kind of start looking at this
as a new Vector for
growth I think as soon as you feel like
you have like actual product Market it
you need to start thinking about how do
you build a scalable distribution engine
right and the reason you want to do
that pretty early on is you don't want
to be in a situation where you hit that
moment right where people are just
coming to you it's crazy your website is
getting flooded there's so many people
that want to talk to you everybody using
your product and it's just amazing it's
one big party right but that's going to
end at some point maybe a month it may
be 6 months maybe a year it may be two
years but at some point most likely that
moment is going to end right and so what
do you do when that moment is going to
end you don't want to be left with no
inbound for your sales team to pick up
so you want to start thinking about what
is a distribution strategy for a company
before that right because then you're in
control of your own destiny um for AI I
think in many ways like I don't think
the rules change that much from like
other companies if you're building
something that people are searching for
you probably should start doing SEO if
you're building a new category you
should probably also begin your SEO even
if it be less
even be less impactful the short term
but like what we found for example is
like owning AI video was less valuable
three years ago it's very valuable today
right so I think you look at all the
different channels that that we all
aware of already I think the big thing
is this word of mouth which is I think
is is kind of very unique to AI right
there's so much public interest in these
Technologies and it's your job to really
kind of harness that it is kind of a
double-edge sword because you you you
you it can also be easy to kind of be
pulled in too much by the hype and end
up focusing on like shortterm
experimental Revenue versus short-term
valuable Revenue right short-term
revenue is a lot of like consumer-driven
Self Service people come in they have
big ideas of what they can do with the
tech like people come to us and be like
I'm going to make ads for Facebook and
we can already tell them like look it's
not good enough yet like the quality of
adage is just not there it will be there
at some point but I know you're going to
churn right
um but you get a thousand people in
there and then you get like some
Enterprises who interested in like for
us training content for example that
tire kicking a little bit which should
you focus on I think if you focus too
much on the shortterm thing you might be
left in the dark when those people turn
because they didn't find a use case so
balancing the kind of
shortterm pump pumped Revenue versus the
long-term Enterprise revenue is very
important and the long-term revenue is
just it's more painful right it's like
much longer sales Cycles you have to
talk to the customers um but I think
it's very important to to invest in in
those and will not get carried away by
by the hype um and what what about
Channel Partners like you're doing a lot
of train I mean one of the use Cas is
you know internal training are you
working with internal training company
educating them on the technology so that
they can distribute it to their
customers or use it produce content like
how how you thinking about alternative
channels I I think Partnerships for us
has
I think I mean I think every business is
very different here right but I think
Partnerships in
general are quite uh for us at least
been been been been quite difficult in
the sense that Outsourcing your sales
and your customer success to someone
else and for us um the most obvious
thing that a partner could do is like
help our customers make the videos it's
like a new discipline that they need to
learn before they can sell it right and
they need to have a good incentive to
partner with you and that's not like
making $55,000 off a preferral on a
50,000 Enterprise deal for us what has
worked well is actually going much
higher up the partn stack so we work
with a lot of the world's big
consultancy agencies um like ey and
Accentra for example where we've gone in
with them and really spend a lot of time
on like building practices around
Synthesia so how can we help their
customers communicate better and have a
good value proposition where we of
course have the
technology and our partners have all the
knowhow in terms of how do you
communicate to a 10,000 person strong
organization right who's going to make
and maintain these 400 videos as part of
like your new training Library so that
has like worked pretty well but um but I
wouldn't say that partn for us has been
like a a kind of a uh a channel we've
invested like that much in so far
because it's generally just been hard to
in such a new category find Partners who
can take that to the market yeah no that
that that makes sense clearly
we need a bit more maturation before you
get there so we're we're reaching um the
tail end of the the discussion so let's
let's look into the
future where do you think what's what's
in store for cesia like where do you
think the technology can go I mean do
you think that next year if we sit here
like half of the room will raise their
hand where when we ask if it is a human
or an avatar yeah for sure I think so
we've always looked at these one of the
key things look we've always had these
rounds in these year is that ultimately
our Tam is rate limited by the quality
and the capabilities of the avatars
right and what we've been good at along
the way is figuring out the right market
for that particular point in time of the
technology right now we're training our
foundation models in the next probably
three to four five months we'll see that
hit the market and that's going to be
like a 10 10x 15x better product than
what we have today I'm really excited to
see what people are going to start
creating with that we've already seen
just the last 6 months as the Avatar has
gotten better and better huge increase
in the types of use cases people do much
more external facing content Marketing
sales for example um but I think it's
pretty obvious that if you with AI can
generate something that looks and feels
like an Apple keynote in just by just
typing it out that's going to be have a
very big impact right a bigger impact
than the sort of stuff we seeing today
so and what about the latency because
with better quality means more data more
processing is a latency going to go up
or do you think that over time we'll be
able to have you know a zoom dialogue
with an avatar who is basically
interacting in real time definitely I
think it's only going to go down and I
think we're also getting to the chapter
of Synthesia now where we really begin
to to to say okay up until now we've
built this great platform for making
videos but ultimately we're doing today
is we're helping you make MP4 files by
taking the camera out of the equation
and that's very powerful right but where
this gets very interesting is Once video
evolves into something that's different
today video is a broadcasting medium
it's one to many right you upload your
video on YouTube and that video the same
video is watched by 10 million people or
whatever how many people watch it and um
in a few months we're going to be making
some big announcements around trying to
evolve video into a type of media format
that's much more interactive it's
personalized it's eventually going to be
something you can conversate with kind
of like you would have a zoom call and I
think that's actually where most of the
potential Lies Over the next 5 years um
and I think this is almost going to
evolve into becoming a new type of
interface um that's of course very
different from text but also very
different from video as we know it today
and that's you think five years from now
we could do an audio Zoom that looks
like a video yeah definitely well that
would be uh that would be quite
interesting it'll definitely be inter
scary at the same
[Laughter]
time good um well we're um we're it's
about time to to wrap up um and the last
question I I would like to ask you is
what are the three key pieces of advice
that you would give to the AI Founders
and entrepreneur in the room but just
before you answer let's have Alex come
back on video and see if she can do a
better job than the first time
I think that's the cue to project the
video that was a great session here's
some of my key takeaways but it would be
great to hear from the humans on stage
too anything I missed
gentlemen I think that was great I mean
when you see a short message like that
come on like if anybody says no no like
I know it was an avatar like I think
you're not being fair uh but Victor do
you want to elaborate more on these
three key points yeah I mean I think we
kind of covered them right but I think
the first one is like focus on driving
utility over novelty as we say
internally in tesia shortterm revenue is
is uh is great and it's very can be very
positive for your business but make sure
you don't lose sight of what's actually
valuable for your customers long term I
think a lot of AI companies have been
struggling with that the last 12 to 18
months the the research versus Implement
versus buy off the shelf touches on just
being very intentional about when do you
want to do the science yourself
because you need to do the science
yourself when are you're going to
implement something that may be
available open source or it's kind of a
solved problem so you can put more of a
timeline around it and when do you want
to buy off the shelf from another
provider right getting the balance
between those things right is very
important and
especially with the way that the
landscape looks today where now there is
actually a ton of AI companies doing all
sorts of different things and it's very
different from 12 months ago and it's
certainly very different from 3 years
ago when there was like very little
infrastructure available right so sit
down also and think about what what do
you think is going to happen to the
market which kind of Technologies is
going to have specific players just
doing that that you may be able to tap
into not today but in three months time
and um and then the last one is is just
like every new market I think has these
like growth hacks and the growth hack
right now is making people talk about
your product which means make it
accessible make it fun make it sharable
um and if you nail those things then um
you can build this kind of like force of
nature which is which is um is just
incredibly powerful um and do I mean the
the I think the biggest growth tactic
right now in AI right is just announce a
bunch of stuff that may not actually be
ready or work in the products I think
we'll we'll see how that pans out over
time uh that's the sort of extreme
version of this I wouldn't necessarily
advocate for that but I think it's an
interesting data point right like almost
every company right now just announcing
things that don't actually work because
that build that ground swell around uh
you know that particular company which
if you use it right can be very valuable
well you did a nice hack with a gbd 40
real time dialogue that that was that
was fun one great thank you very much
Victor thanks for having me it's a fun
discussion thank you thank you everyone
[Applause]